# electricity-supply-chain-simulator

##Abstract
California’s aggressive push for renewable energy penetration has exacerbated their curtailment problems, where, according to researcher Zhanlong Zhang, the generated energy exceeds local demand and production must be reduced because of limited transmission capacity (Zhang, 2018). In 2020, the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) curtailed 1.5 million megawatt-hours (MWh) of renewable energy, which, at the November 2021 price of 18.96 cents per kilowatt-hour (KWh), costs $284,400,000 (United States Energy Information Administration, 2021). An alternate supply chain, in which electric trucks ship batteries that store otherwise curtailed renewable energy to distribution centers, could alleviate the state’s curtailment issues. The profitability and curtailment reduction of this mode were evaluated under 2021, 2024, and 2030 conditions. The data was obtained by simulating the supply chain based on CAISO’s 2021 5-minute interval curtailment data. This study calculated the profitability of the supply chain to be $4,274,179.28 in 2021, $20,128,388.76 in 2024, and $29,674,662.37 in 2030. The curtailment reduction was 260,871.03 MWh in 2021, 460,458.92 MWh in 2024, and 531,969.54 MWh in 2030. These results suggest that this mode is a feasible and moderately impactful solution that, combined with other solutions (e.g. CAISO’s Energy Imbalance Market), can considerably reduce curtailment in California. Furthermore, this simulated model can be applied to other states or countries if the input data is provided.
